1.	CONSTITUTION, NAME AND CORPORATE PERSONALITY
1.1.	This is the Constitution of the body known as the "South African Equestrian Federation" (“SAEF”) (hereinafter “THE FEDERATION”)
1.2.	THE FEDERATION is a voluntary association having a corporate identity separate from that of its Members and is entitled to own property, whether movable or immovable or otherwise, and is entitled to sue and to be sued in its own name and, notwithstanding any change in the composition of its Members from time to time, shall have perpetual succession. The provisions of this Constitution are founded upon and shall be implemented and administered in recognition of human dignity, equality and the advancement of human rights and freedoms, non-racialism, non-sexism and the right of freedom of association and the supremacy of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa (1996), the rule of law and good corporate governance.
1.3.	This Constitution of THE FEDERATION is in no way in conflict with the Constitution of the South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (“SASCOC”), the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa and all applicable and relevant Acts of Parliament, and to the extent that any such provisions of this Constitution are or may be interpreted to be so, the provisions of the SASCOC Constitution and or the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa and or the Act of Parliament shall prevail.
1.4.	This Constitution shall be binding on all individuals and members of THE FEDERATION, as well as all persons serving on any of its structures and sub-structures, as well as all individuals or bodies registered with THE FEDERATION, and the Equestrian Community as defined.
1.5.	To the extent that the constitution of any member of THE FEDERATION and/or the Provincial or District Federation Members of THE FEDERATION are in conflict with any of the provisions of this Constitution of THE FEDERATION, the provisions of THE FEDERATION’s constitution shall prevail.

# Secretary General has requested no changes to this section.
