2.	DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS USED

For the purposes of this Constitution, the following words and expressions shall have the following meanings unless the subject or context indicates otherwise:
2.1.	“Act of Parliament” refers to all applicable and relevant legislation in force and specifically including the National Sport and Recrea-tion Act, (Act No 110 of 1998), as amended by the National Sport and Recreation Amendment Act (Act No 18 of 2007), also re-ferred to as “The Act”. 

2.2.	"A.G.M." means the Annual General Meeting of Members held in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution.

2.3.	"Annual Financial Statements" means the annual audited balance sheet, income and expenditure statement, Treasurer’s report and Auditor’s report.

2.4.	“Appeal Board” means a body of appeal appointed by the Execu-tive Board in terms of this Constitution.

2.5.	“Area of Jurisdiction” means the administration of THE FEDERA-TION shall be the Republic of South Africa.

2.6.	“Associate Members” shall be those members currently within the SAEF and shall include the Schools Association (“SANESA”), and any other Member who complies fully with the provisions of this Constitution, and who is confirmed by SASCOC as having fulfilled the criteria of bona fide Associate Members in terms of the SAS-COC Constitution.

2.7.	“Athlete/Participant” means a person competing in Equestrian Sport, in any Discipline, within any Club, (or as an individual) in a Development structure and/or a Provincial or District Structure of THE FEDERATION, who shall be subject to the authority of THE FEDERATION, irrespective of gender or age category.

2.8.	“Athletes Commission” shall mean a body of persons representing Athletes/Participants competing in any form of equestrian sport, irrespective of gender or age and shall comprise of 1 (one) elect-ed athlete within each Discipline. 

2.9.	"Club" means any Equestrian club which caters for any discipline of Equestrian sport in a local district or area and which is a mem-ber of the District and/or Provincial Federation and the Discipline Association or Associations, which disciplines it caters for, or whose interests are represented by such District or Provincial Federation. A club has the right to decide which and how many disciplines it will cater for and must adhere of that requirements of that specific Discipline Association to be recognised as a club ca-tering for that specific discipline.

2.10.	“Coach” shall, for the purposes of this Constitution, have the same meaning as “trainer” or “instructor”.

2.11.	“Committee” means a committee established in terms of this Constitution.

2.12.	“Compliance” means that the Member, Provincial Federation and or District, Club or individual has fulfilled the necessary provisions of this Constitution in regard to specific requirements as contained herein, and as such is regarded as being in good standing with THE FEDERATION.   

2.13.	"Constitution" means this Constitution.

2.14.	“Day” means a calendar day.

2.15.	“Development Structure” means any structure in which a devel-opment rider participates without any form of award save and ex-cept for the award of rosettes.

2.16.	“Disciplines” shall mean those individual equestrian disciplines of individual Discipline Associations as recognised by the FEDERA-TION.

2.17.	“Discipline Association” shall mean those individual equestrian bodies administering the various equestrian disciplines as referred to in Schedule “F” under the auspices, authority and jurisdiction of THE FEDERATION. 

2.18.	“Disciplinary Board” which shall mean the disciplinary body ap-pointed by the National Council in terms of its constitution; and

2.19.	“District Chairman” means duly elected chairman of a District within a Province from the body of the Clubs located in the District nominated and elected by the Clubs to attend to the development and administration of THE FEDERATION within a demarcated district within a Province.

2.20.	“District Committee” means the membership of a District Body in a general meeting.

2.21.	“Ethics Board” shall mean the Ethics Body appointed by the Na-tional Council in terms of the constitution.

2.22.	“Event” means an Equestrian event held in South Africa under the auspices of THE FEDERATION and its various Provincial Fed-erations or District Federations and or relevant international body to which the Federation is affiliated (save and except for a Devel-opment event.)

2.23.	"Equestrian" means Equestrian Sport of “Equestrian,” whether played or participated in individually or in the presence of an op-ponent or opponents, involving horses, and includes the disci-plines referred to in this Constitution and as defined by the Inter-national Federations.

2.24.	“Equestrian friend” means friend of THE FEDERATION.

2.25.	“Equestrian Community” means all Members, Ath-letes/Participants, Provincial Federations and or Districts, coach-es, event organisers and any other participant in Equestrian Sport under the auspices of THE FEDERATION.

2.26.	“Exco" means the Executive Board of THE FEDERATION, as constituted in terms of this Constitution.

2.27.	“FEI” means Federation Equestre Internationale.

2.28.	“Geo-political Member” means those Members duly accepted as members and who make up the separate nine (9) Geopolitical structures as referred to in Annexure “A”. 

2.29.	“Group 9” means the Group 9 grouping of FEI.

2.30.	“Head Coach” means the person appointed from within the head coaches of each individual Discipline Association as such by the National Council, on recommendation of Exco.

2.31.	“Headquarters” means the Headquarters of THE FEDERATION, which shall be determined by the membership at any elective An-nual General Meeting.

2.32.	"Honorary Life Members" means all those persons bestowed with this honour by the National Council.

2.33.	“Horse” includes all equines.

2.34.	“IF” means the International Federation/s to which THE FEDER-ATION is affiliated.

2.35.	“Individual” means any person who is not affiliated to any club or region by virtue of their circumstances, but who accepts and is bound by the provisions of this Constitution.

2.36.	“Legal, Disciplinary, Ethics and Appeals committee” shall mean a judicial body duly appointed by the Exco at a General Meeting and to administer any forms of judicial process inclusive of inves-tigations,hearings, determinations and recommendations. 

2.37.	"Levies" means the monies levied and due by the membership to THE FEDERATION as approved and agreed to by membership at each A.G.M. of THE FEDERATION.

2.38.	"Member" is fully described in Chapter 3

2.39.	"Month" means a calendar month.

2.40.	"National Convention" means the meetings of all Members, Commissions and Committees at the same venue and dates to coincide with any Ordinary or Annual General Meeting of the membership of THE FEDERATION 

2.41.	“National Council” means the membership of THE FEDERATION in general meeting.

2.42.	“National Sport Federation” means the national governing body of the Sport in membership with SASCOC, and recognised by the Department of Sport and Recreation in the Republic of South Af-rica. 

2.43.	“NPC” means the National Provincial Championships.

2.44.	"Ordinary General Meeting" means a meeting of Members other than an A.G.M. or Special General Meeting convened in terms of this Constitution.

2.45.	"Ordinary Members" means those Members duly accepted as members in terms as set out in this Constitution, and fully de-scribed in Section 3

2.46.	"Patrons" shall mean a person duly appointed as such in terms of this Constitution.

2.47.	"Person" means a natural or legal person, including NPO’s and NGO’s, who shall at all times abide by this constitution not with-standing any legislation applicable to such an organisation.

2.48.	“President" means the President of THE FEDERATION, duly elected in terms of this Constitution.

2.49.	“Province” means one of the nine (9) geopolitical areas as defined in Section 103 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa 1996 (as amended).

2.50.	“Provincial Federation” means a body representing the various Clubs and or Districts within a Province, consisting of duly elected representatives, in line with the requirements of the Department of Sport and Recreation, and the Sport Confederation in that Province, which, within a Province, are associated with each other for the development and administration of equestrian sport in that Province, including the specific purpose of liaison and communi-cation with the Equestrian Sporting disciplines of that Province, the and the Sport Confederation in that Province.

2.51.	“Provincial Federation Council” means the membership of the Provincial Federation in at a general meeting.

2.52.	“Registered individuals” mean the athletes/participants, officials, coaches, managers, administrators registered, friends/workers registered FEDERATION. and elected by the Clubs to attend to the development and administration of THE FEDERATION within a demarcated district within a Province.

2.53.	“Rules” means the rules, regulations, procedures and by-laws in force from time to time in accordance with which the affairs of THE FEDERATION will be conducted. 

2.54.	“SAIDS” means the South African Institute for Drug-Free Sport.

2.55.	“SASCOC” means the South African Sport Confederation and Olympic Committee duly recognized and approved by SRSA as the governing body of Sport in the Republic of South Africa.

2.56.	“SCHOOLS” means South African National Equestrian Schools Association (“SANESA”)

2.57.	“Secretary General” means the person either elected as such by the National Council or employed by the Executive who shall not have a vote in any matter whatsoever,

2.58.	“South African Equestrian Federation” (THE FEDERATION) means the body constituted in terms of this Constitution, which is the recognised member of SASCOC as the organisation respon-sible for Equestrian Sport in the Republic of South Africa.

2.59.	"Special General Meeting” means a meeting of Members, other than an Ordinary or Annual General Meeting, convened for a spe-cial purpose in terms of this Constitution.

2.60.	“SRSA”, means the Department of Sport & Recreation in South Africa.

2.61.	“Trainer” shall for the purposes of this Constitution have the same meaning as “coach” or “instructor”.

2.62.	“Treasurer" means the person elected by the National Council or employed by the National Executive in terms of the provisions of this Constitution and who shall have a minimum of five (5) years financial experience.

2.63.	Veterinary Commission” means the association formed as the representative body of all Equine Veterinary Practitioners involved in Equine Sport, to provide the necessary guidelines to ensure the welfare of the horse, taking into account the unique requirements of each discipline.

2.64.	"Vice-President" means the Vice-President of THE FEDERA-TION, duly elected in terms of this Constitution.

2.65.	“WADA” means the World Anti-Doping Agency.

2.66.	”Working day” means a calendar day excluding Saturdays, Sun-days and Public Holidays.

2.67.	“Year” means a calendar year.

2.68.	“ZSC” means the Zone 6 Confederation.
